# Day 1 - Lab 2 : Log Analytics Customization

DevIntersection Security Workshop

This lab is a bit more involved than the previous lab.  This lab will walk you through how to create custom logs in your host machines and then send those custom logs to Azure Log Analytics.

## Exercise 1: Log Analytics Customization

All of the following tasks should be performed from the **paw-1** lab virtual machine.

### Task 1: Add custom logs

1. Open the Azure Portal.
2. Browse to the resource group.
3. Select the **wssecuritySUFFIX** log analytics workspace.
4. Under **Settings**, select **Advanced Settings**.
5. Select **Data** then select **Windows Event Logs**.
6. Type **Application**, then select the **+** button
7. Type **System**, then select the **+** button
8. Type **Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operation**, then select the **+** button
9. Select **Custom logs**.
10. Click **Add+** to open the Custom Log Wizard.

    > **NOTE** By default, all configuration changes are automatically pushed to all agents. For Linux agents, a configuration file is sent to the Fluentd data collector.

11. Select **Choose File** and browse to the **c:\lab files\security-workshop\artifacts/logfile*.txt** sample file.
12. Select **Next**. The Custom Log Wizard will upload the file and list the records that it identifies.
13. On the `Select record delimiter`, select **Timestamp**
14. Select **YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS**
15. Select **Next**
16. For the log collection paths, type **C:\logs\/*.log**, then select the **+** button
17. Select **Next**
18. For the name, type **CustomSecurity_CL**
19. Select **Done**
20. Select **Save**, in the dialog select **OK**
21. Browse back to the log analytics workspace blade
22. Under **Workspace Data Sources**, select **Virtual Machines**
23. Select the **wssecuritySUFFIX-linux-1** machine
24. Select **Connect**

### Task 3: Install and Configure MMA Agent Manually

1. Copy the **c:\lab files\security-workshop\artifacts/logs-01** folder contents to the **c:\logs** folder
2. Inside the **paw-1** virtual machine, open the Azure Portal
3. Login using your lab credentials
4. Browse to the log analytics workspace
5. Select **Agents Management**
6. On the windows servers tab, select **Download Windows Agent (64bit)**
7. Execute the **MMASetup-AMD64.exe** installer
8. Select **Next**
9. Select **I Agree**
10. Select **Next**
11. Select the **Connect the agent to Azure Log Analytics (OMS)**
12. Select **Next**
13. From the portal, copy the workspace ID and Key
14. Select **Next**
15. Select **Next**
16. Select **Install**
17. Select **Finish**
18. Wait 5-10 minutes for the agent to initialize and start sending event data to the workspace.

    > **NOTE** If you do not see data flowing, repeat the steps above for adding the virtual machine as a data source similar to the **wssecuritySUFFIX-linux-1** machine

### Task 4: Setup Sysmon

1. Log in to the **paw-1** virtual machine
2. Unzip the **c:\labfiles\security-workshop\artifacts\sysmon.zip** file
3. Open a command prompt, tun the following command:

    ```cmd
    cd c:\labfiles\security-workshop\artifacts\sysmon
    sysmon -accepteula -I
    ```

### Task 5: Search custom logs #1

1. Switch back to the log analytics workspace
2. Under **General**, Select **Logs**
3. If prompted, select **Get started**, close the dialog that opens
4. In the query text area, type the following:

    ```sql
    Heartbeat | where OSType == 'Windows'| summarize arg_max(TimeGenerated, *) by SourceComputerId | sort by Computer | render table
    ```

5. You should see the **paw-1** machine displayed. If you do not see it, wait for a few more minutes.  Refresh the query until you see the machine displayed as a result.
6. In the query text area, type the following:

    ```sql
    CustomSecurity_CL
    ```

    > **NOTE** It could take 5-10 minutes before you see custom log data. Azure Monitor will collect new entries from each custom log approximately every 5 minutes.

7. You should see the following results, notice the **RawData** column.

    TODO

8. You can manually break out the information using Kusto functions. Run the following query:

    ```sql
    CustomSecurity_CL
    | extend CSVFields  = split(RawData, ',')
    | extend EventTime  = todatetime(CSVFields[0])
    | extend Code       = tostring(CSVFields[1])
    | extend Status     = tostring(CSVFields[2])
    | extend Message    = tostring(CSVFields[3])
    | summarize count() by Status,Code
    ```

> **NOTE** We would like to expand this out without having to parse it so we'll create Custom Fields in the next task.

### Task 6: Create Custom Fields

1. Run the following query

    ```sql
    CustomSecurity_CL
    ```

2. Expand the first record properties
3. Select the ellipse to the left of the top property of the record, then select **Extract fields from**.
4. The Field Extraction Wizard is opened, and the record you selected is displayed in the Main Example column. The custom field will be defined for those records with the same values in the properties that are selected.

### Task 7: Search custom logs #2

1. Run the following query:

    ```sql
    OrgSecurity_CL
    | where IP_CF == "192.168.102.2"
    ```

2. You should see the following:

TODO

### Task 8: Data Collector API

1. Run the `DataCollector.ps1` script in a PowerShell ISE window, be sure to replace the workspace ID and Key.
2. Run the following query in your log analytics workspace:

    ```output
    OrgSecurity_CL
    ```

## Reference Links

- [Azure Monitor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/overview)
- [Logs in Azure Monitor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/data-platform-logs)
- [Log Analytics Workspace](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/design-logs-deployment)
- [Log Analytics agent overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/log-analytics-agent)
- [Custom logs in Azure Monitor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/data-sources-custom-logs)
- [Send log data to Azure Monitor with the HTTP Data Collector API (public preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/data-collector-api)
- [Create custom fields in a Log Analytics workspace in Azure Monitor (Preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/custom-fields)
- [Parse text data in Azure Monitor logs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/log-query/parse-text)
- [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon)
