# Day 1 - Lab 1 : Azure Key Vault Integration

DevIntersection Security Workshop

This lab will start us out simple and easy with Azure Key Vault and Managed Identities so you can get experience with the lab environments.

## Exercise 1: Azure Key Vault

1. Open the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com).
2. Login using your provided lab credentials.
3. Select **Resource groups**
4. Navigate to the ***-wssecurity** resource group
5. Select the **wssecuritySUFFIX-kv** key vault.
6. In the blade, under the **Settings** section, select **Secrets**.
7. Select **+ Generate/Import**.

    > **NOTE** If for some reason you are not able to add a new secret, add an Access Policy for your lab user with GET/SET to Secrets.

8. For the name, type **ThisIsMyPassport**.
9. For the value, type **ItIsMyVoice**.
10. Select **Create**.
11. Select the new secret.
12. Select the current version.
13. Copy the **Secret Identifier** url, save it for usage later.

> **NOTE** It will look similar to: `https://wssecurityabc12345-kv.vault.azure.net/secrets/ThisIsMyPassport/912cc2cff8154a118e7d3db605070636`

## Exercise 2: Managed Service Identity (MSI) Integration

1. Navigate back to the resource group
2. Select the **wssecuritySUFFIX-paw-1** virtual machine
3. In the blade, select **Identity**
4. For the **System Managed**, toggle the status to **On**
5. Select **Save**, in the dialog select **Yes**
6. Navigate to the resource group, select the **wssecuritySUFFIX** app service
7. In the blade menu, under **Settings** select **Identity**
8. For the **System assigned** tab, toggle the status to **On**
9. Select **Save**, in the dialog select **Yes**
10. Navigate back to the resource group
11. Repeat enabling the identity for the **wssecuritySUFFIX** app service
12. Navigate to the Azure Key Vault
13. Under **Settings**, select **Access Policies**
14. Select **Add Access Policy**
15. For the **Secret permissions**, select **Get** and **List**
16. For the `Select principal`, select **None selected** link
17. Search for the **wssecuritySUFFIX-paw-1** virtual machine, and select it
18. Select **Select**
19. Select **Add**
20. Repeat for the App Service Managed Service Identity.
21. Select **Save**

## Exercise 3: Access Key Vault using MSI (Virtual Machine)

1. Login to your **wssecuritySUFFIX-paw-1** virtual machine
   - Browse to it in the Azure Portal
   - Select the **wssecuritySUFFIX-paw-1**
   - Ensure that the virtual machine is **Started**
   - Select **Connect->RDP**, then select **Download RDP File**
   - Open a remote desktop session to the VM using the username: wsuser and password {YOUR LAB PASSWORD}
2. Open a PowerShell window, run the following commands.  Be sure to replace the key vault name with your SUFFIX, remove the curly braces:

    ```PowerShell
    $pp = Get-PackageProvider -Name NuGet -Force

    Set-PSRepository PSGallery -InstallationPolicy Trusted

    $m = get-module -ListAvailable -name Az.Accounts

    if (!$m)
    {
        Install-Module Az -Repository PSGallery -Force -AllowClobber
    }

    Uninstall-AzureRm

    Add-AzAccount -identity

    $secret = Get-AzKeyVaultSecret -VaultName {wssecuritySUFFIX-kv} -Name "ThisIsMyPassport"

    $ssPtr = [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::SecureStringToBSTR($secret.SecretValue)
    try {
    $secretValueText = [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::PtrToStringBSTR($ssPtr)
    } finally {
    [System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::ZeroFreeBSTR($ssPtr)
    }
    Write-Output $secretValueText

    ```

    > **NOTE** You should see the Key Vault secret value displayed in the PowerShell window.  The libraries used in the PowerShell script utilized the MSI identity of the virtual machine to access the key vault.

## Exercise 4: Access Key Vault using MSI (Web App)

1. Open the **wssecuritySUFFIX** app service
2. In the app service blade select **Overview**, then select the link to open the azure web site.  You should see the "NotRight" as the displayed value.
3. Switch back to the Azure Portal
4. Under **Settings**, select **Configuration** in the blade menu
5. Select **+New application setting**
6. For the name, type **SecretUrl**
7. For the value, set it replacing the key vault name and the version with the values you copied from above:

    ```cmd
    @Microsoft.KeyVault(SecretUri=https://{wssecuritySUFFIX-kv}.vault.azure.net/secrets/ThisIsMyPassport/{version})
    ```

8. Select **Save**, in the dialog select **Continue**
9. Switch back to the app service web site and refresh the page. You should see your key value displayed.

    > *NOTE* Key Vault references currently only support system-assigned managed identities. User-assigned identities cannot be used.

## Reference Links

- [Azure Key Vault](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/general/basic-concepts)
- [Managed Service Identities](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
- [Azure Key Vault Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/app-service-key-vault-references)
- [How managed identities for Azure resources work with Azure virtual machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-managed-identities-work-vm)
