# Day 2 - Lab 3

DevIntersection Security Workshop

## Exercise 1 : Create TAXII Connections

1. Open the Azure Portal in your **paw-1** virtual machine
2. Select **Azure Sentinel**
3. Under **Configuration**, select **Data Connectors**
4. Select **Threat Intelligence – TAXII** from the list of the data connectors
5. Click the **Open Connector page** button.
6. For the **Friendly name**, type **Mitre**
7. Enter the API Root, type **https://cti-taxii.mitre.org/stix**
8. For Collection ID, type **95ecc380-afe9-11e4-9b6c-751b66dd541e**
9. For username and password leave blank
10. Click the **Add** button.
11. For the **Friendly name**, type **Anomali**
12. Enter the API Root, type **https://limo.anomali.com/api/v1/taxii2/feeds/**
13. For Collection ID, type **107**
14. For username and password, type **guest**
15. Click the **Add** button.
16. You should now see a confirmation on the notification dialog that the connection was established successfully. The TAXII Server will now show up in the List of the configured TAXII Servers.
17. To view the threat indicators imported into Azure Sentinel, select **Logs**

## Exercise 2 : Importing TAXII Rules

1. Under **General**, select **Logs**
2. You should now see an **Azure Sentinel** table category displayed
3. Expand it and then expand **ThreatIntelligenceIndicator**. You should now see a list of all the alerts that were imported from the TAXII connectors
4. Under **Threat Management**, select **Threat Intelligence**
5. You should notice several new items displayed based on type and the source (you should see Anomali and Mitre as sources)
6. Select one of the items
7. In the dialog on the right, click the **0 Alerts** area. You will be directed to Log Analytics with the query that represents the item
8. Select **New alert rule->Create Azure Sentinel alert**, follow the dialogs as you have done before in previous labs.
9. Congrats, you have imported external security provider data and created an alert from it using the STIX and TAXII standards.

## Reference Links

- [TAXII documentation](https://oasis-open.github.io/cti-documentation/)
- [Threat Intelligence Platforms](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sentinel/connect-threat-intelligence#integrated-threat-intelligence-platform-products)
- [Mitre TAXII](https://github.com/mitre/cti/blob/master/USAGE.md)
- [Mitre Updates](https://attack.mitre.org/resources/updates/)